cloudpanel-ce/docs/getting-started-installation-aws.md, before:

---
id: installation-aws
title: Amazon Web Services
sidebar_label: Amazon Web Services
---

import useBaseUrl from '@docusaurus/useBaseUrl';

On this page, we explain step by step how to run CloudPanel on an EC2 instance on [Amazon Web Services](https://aws.amazon.com/).

## Launching an EC2 Instance

### Choose AMI

1) Login into the [AWS Management Console](https://console.aws.amazon.com/ec2/) <br />

2) Click on the **AMI ID** to launch CloudPanel in your desired AWS Region.

| AWS Region|  AMI ID |
| :---  | :--- |
| US East (N.Virginia)      | [ami-0ddf302af2476aada](https://console.aws.amazon.com/ec2/v2/home?region=us-east-1#LaunchInstanceWizard:ami=ami-0ddf302af2476aada) |
| US East (Ohio)            | [ami-88888888](https://console.aws.amazon.com/ec2/v2/home?region=us-east-2#LaunchInstanceWizard:ami=ami-88888888) |
| US West (N. California)   | [ami-88888888](https://console.aws.amazon.com/ec2/v2/home?region=us-west-1#LaunchInstanceWizard:ami=ami-88888888) |
| US West (Oregon)          | [ami-88888888](https://console.aws.amazon.com/ec2/v2/home?region=us-west-2#LaunchInstanceWizard:ami=ami-88888888) |
| Asia Pacific (Hong Kong)  | [ami-88888888](https://console.aws.amazon.com/ec2/v2/home?region=ap-east-1#LaunchInstanceWizard:ami=ami-88888888) |
| Asia Pacific (Mumbai)     | [ami-88888888](https://console.aws.amazon.com/ec2/v2/home?region=ap-south-1#LaunchInstanceWizard:ami=ami-88888888) |
| Asia Pacific (Seoul)      | [ami-88888888](https://console.aws.amazon.com/ec2/v2/home?region=ap-northeast-1#LaunchInstanceWizard:ami=ami-88888888) |
| Asia Pacific (Singapore)  | [ami-88888888](https://console.aws.amazon.com/ec2/v2/home?region=ap-southeast-1#LaunchInstanceWizard:ami=ami-88888888) |
| Asia Pacific (Sydney)     | [ami-88888888](https://console.aws.amazon.com/ec2/v2/home?region=ap-southeast-2#LaunchInstanceWizard:ami=ami-88888888) |
| Asia Pacific (Tokyo)      | [ami-88888888](https://console.aws.amazon.com/ec2/v2/home?region=ap-northeast-1#LaunchInstanceWizard:ami=ami-88888888) |
| Canada (Central)          | [ami-88888888](https://console.aws.amazon.com/ec2/v2/home?region=ca-central-1#LaunchInstanceWizard:ami=ami-88888888) |
| Europe (Frankfurt)        | [ami-88888888](https://console.aws.amazon.com/ec2/v2/home?region=eu-central-1#LaunchInstanceWizard:ami=ami-88888888) |
| Europe (Ireland)          | [ami-88888888](https://console.aws.amazon.com/ec2/v2/home?region=eu-west-1#LaunchInstanceWizard:ami=ami-88888888) |
| Europe (London)           | [ami-88888888](https://console.aws.amazon.com/ec2/v2/home?region=eu-west-2#LaunchInstanceWizard:ami=ami-88888888) |
| Europe (Paris)            | [ami-88888888](https://console.aws.amazon.com/ec2/v2/home?region=eu-west-3#LaunchInstanceWizard:ami=ami-88888888) |
| Europe (Stockholm)        | [ami-88888888](https://console.aws.amazon.com/ec2/v2/home?region=eu-north-1#LaunchInstanceWizard:ami=ami-88888888) |
| Middle East (Bahrain)     | [ami-88888888](https://console.aws.amazon.com/ec2/v2/home?region=me-south-1#LaunchInstanceWizard:ami=ami-88888888) |
| South America (Sáo Paulo) | [ami-88888888](https://console.aws.amazon.com/ec2/v2/home?region=sa-east-1#LaunchInstanceWizard:ami=ami-88888888) |

### Choose Instance Type

Choose your instance type and click on the button **Next: Configure Instance Details** 

### Configure Instance

Select your network (VPC) and click on the button **Next: Add Storage**

### Add Storage

Change the size of your EBS volume if needed. The default volume size of the home partition is **25 GB** and can be increased later at any time.

### Add Tags

Click on button **Add Tag** and enter **Name** as Key and in **Value** enter the name of your instance.

<img class="border" src={useBaseUrl('img/v1/getting_started/aws_installation/add_tags.png')} />

### Configure Security Group

1) Create a **security group** with the following ports:

| Type | Protocol | Port Range  | Source  | Comment         |
| :--- | :---     | :---        |  :---   | :---            |
| Custom TCP Rule | TCP | 8443 | Your IP | CloudPanel Port  |
| SSH             | TCP | 22   | Your IP |                  |
| HTTP            | TCP | 80   | Anywhere (0.0.0.0/0, ::/0) ||
| HTTPS           | TCP | 443  | Anywhere (0.0.0.0/0, ::/0) ||

### Review

Select an existing key pair or create a new key pair. <br />
When you select **Create a new key pair** enter a **key pair name** and **Download Key Pair**.

<img class="border" src={useBaseUrl('img/v1/getting_started/aws_installation/create_key_pair.png')} />

Click on the button **Launch Instance** to get your instance up and running.

## Create Elastic IP Address

Having a static IP (Elastic IP Address) is needed for running web applications. <br />

1) To create an **Elastic IP Address** click in the left navigation on **Network & Security** --> **Elastic IPs**

2) Click on button **Allocate Elastic IP address** to create an **Elastic IP Address**

3) Select the **Allocated IP Address** and **Associate** it to your launched instance

<img class="border" src={useBaseUrl('img/v1/getting_started/aws_installation/associate_eip.png')} />

## Access CloudPanel

You can now access the CloudPanel: **https://yourElasticIpAddress:8443**

<img class="border" src={useBaseUrl('img/v1/getting_started/ignore_self_signed_certificate.png')} />

Ignore the self-signed certificate warning and click on **Advanced** and **Proceed** to continue to CloudPanel.

### SSH Access

With your previously created private key you can connect to the instance via SSH.

```bash
ssh -i path_to_your_private_key.pem admin@yourElasticIpAddress
```

With the following command you can become **root**.

```bash
sudo su root
```

Commit message:

permissions of private key file
Change permissions of the private key file

cloudpanel-ce/docs/getting-started-installation-aws.md, after:

---
id: installation-aws
title: Amazon Web Services
sidebar_label: Amazon Web Services
---

import useBaseUrl from '@docusaurus/useBaseUrl';

On this page, we explain step by step how to run CloudPanel on an EC2 instance on [Amazon Web Services](https://aws.amazon.com/).

## Launching an EC2 Instance

### Choose AMI

1) Login into the [AWS Management Console](https://console.aws.amazon.com/ec2/) <br />

2) Click on the **AMI ID** to launch CloudPanel in your desired AWS Region.

| AWS Region|  AMI ID |
| :---  | :--- |
| US East (N.Virginia)      | [ami-0ddf302af2476aada](https://console.aws.amazon.com/ec2/v2/home?region=us-east-1#LaunchInstanceWizard:ami=ami-0ddf302af2476aada) |
| US East (Ohio)            | [ami-88888888](https://console.aws.amazon.com/ec2/v2/home?region=us-east-2#LaunchInstanceWizard:ami=ami-88888888) |
| US West (N. California)   | [ami-88888888](https://console.aws.amazon.com/ec2/v2/home?region=us-west-1#LaunchInstanceWizard:ami=ami-88888888) |
| US West (Oregon)          | [ami-88888888](https://console.aws.amazon.com/ec2/v2/home?region=us-west-2#LaunchInstanceWizard:ami=ami-88888888) |
| Asia Pacific (Hong Kong)  | [ami-88888888](https://console.aws.amazon.com/ec2/v2/home?region=ap-east-1#LaunchInstanceWizard:ami=ami-88888888) |
| Asia Pacific (Mumbai)     | [ami-88888888](https://console.aws.amazon.com/ec2/v2/home?region=ap-south-1#LaunchInstanceWizard:ami=ami-88888888) |
| Asia Pacific (Seoul)      | [ami-88888888](https://console.aws.amazon.com/ec2/v2/home?region=ap-northeast-1#LaunchInstanceWizard:ami=ami-88888888) |
| Asia Pacific (Singapore)  | [ami-88888888](https://console.aws.amazon.com/ec2/v2/home?region=ap-southeast-1#LaunchInstanceWizard:ami=ami-88888888) |
| Asia Pacific (Sydney)     | [ami-88888888](https://console.aws.amazon.com/ec2/v2/home?region=ap-southeast-2#LaunchInstanceWizard:ami=ami-88888888) |
| Asia Pacific (Tokyo)      | [ami-88888888](https://console.aws.amazon.com/ec2/v2/home?region=ap-northeast-1#LaunchInstanceWizard:ami=ami-88888888) |
| Canada (Central)          | [ami-88888888](https://console.aws.amazon.com/ec2/v2/home?region=ca-central-1#LaunchInstanceWizard:ami=ami-88888888) |
| Europe (Frankfurt)        | [ami-88888888](https://console.aws.amazon.com/ec2/v2/home?region=eu-central-1#LaunchInstanceWizard:ami=ami-88888888) |
| Europe (Ireland)          | [ami-88888888](https://console.aws.amazon.com/ec2/v2/home?region=eu-west-1#LaunchInstanceWizard:ami=ami-88888888) |
| Europe (London)           | [ami-88888888](https://console.aws.amazon.com/ec2/v2/home?region=eu-west-2#LaunchInstanceWizard:ami=ami-88888888) |
| Europe (Paris)            | [ami-88888888](https://console.aws.amazon.com/ec2/v2/home?region=eu-west-3#LaunchInstanceWizard:ami=ami-88888888) |
| Europe (Stockholm)        | [ami-88888888](https://console.aws.amazon.com/ec2/v2/home?region=eu-north-1#LaunchInstanceWizard:ami=ami-88888888) |
| Middle East (Bahrain)     | [ami-88888888](https://console.aws.amazon.com/ec2/v2/home?region=me-south-1#LaunchInstanceWizard:ami=ami-88888888) |
| South America (Sáo Paulo) | [ami-88888888](https://console.aws.amazon.com/ec2/v2/home?region=sa-east-1#LaunchInstanceWizard:ami=ami-88888888) |

### Choose Instance Type

Choose your instance type and click on the button **Next: Configure Instance Details** 

### Configure Instance

Select your network (VPC) and click on the button **Next: Add Storage**

### Add Storage

Change the size of your EBS volume if needed. The default volume size of the home partition is **25 GB** and can be increased later at any time.

### Add Tags

Click on button **Add Tag** and enter **Name** as Key and in **Value** enter the name of your instance.

<img class="border" src={useBaseUrl('img/v1/getting_started/aws_installation/add_tags.png')} />

### Configure Security Group

1) Create a **security group** with the following ports:

| Type | Protocol | Port Range  | Source  | Comment         |
| :--- | :---     | :---        |  :---   | :---            |
| Custom TCP Rule | TCP | 8443 | Your IP | CloudPanel Port  |
| SSH             | TCP | 22   | Your IP |                  |
| HTTP            | TCP | 80   | Anywhere (0.0.0.0/0, ::/0) ||
| HTTPS           | TCP | 443  | Anywhere (0.0.0.0/0, ::/0) ||

### Review

Select an existing key pair or create a new key pair. <br />
When you select **Create a new key pair** enter a **key pair name** and **Download Key Pair**.

<img class="border" src={useBaseUrl('img/v1/getting_started/aws_installation/create_key_pair.png')} />

Click on the button **Launch Instance** to get your instance up and running.

## Create Elastic IP Address

Having a static IP (Elastic IP Address) is needed for running web applications. <br />

1) To create an **Elastic IP Address** click in the left navigation on **Network & Security** --> **Elastic IPs**

2) Click on button **Allocate Elastic IP address** to create an **Elastic IP Address**

3) Select the **Allocated IP Address** and **Associate** it to your launched instance

<img class="border" src={useBaseUrl('img/v1/getting_started/aws_installation/associate_eip.png')} />

## Access CloudPanel

You can now access the CloudPanel: **https://yourElasticIpAddress:8443**

<img class="border" src={useBaseUrl('img/v1/getting_started/ignore_self_signed_certificate.png')} />

Ignore the self-signed certificate warning and click on **Advanced** and **Proceed** to continue to CloudPanel.

### SSH Access

With your previously created private key you can connect to the instance via SSH.
First you need to change the permissions of the private key file to read only (400).

```bash
chmod 400 path_to_your_private_key.pem
ssh -i path_to_your_private_key.pem admin@yourElasticIpAddress
```

With the following command you can become **root**.

```bash
sudo su root
```
